The 77th British Academy Film Awards, more commonly known as the BAFTAs, were held on 18 February 2024, honouring the best national and foreign films of 2023, at the Royal Festival Hall within London's Southbank Centre. Presented by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, accolades were handed out for the best feature-length film and documentaries of any nationality that were screened at British cinemas in 2023.
The ceremony was hosted by David Tennant for the first time; "I am delighted to have been asked to host the EE BAFTA Film Awards and help celebrate the very best of this year's films and the many brilliant people who bring them to life", said Tennant. The broadcast streamed live on BBC One and iPlayer in the UK from 19:00–21:00 GMT, and on BritBox International in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Norway, South Africa, Sweden and the US.
The BAFTA longlists were unveiled on 5 January 2024. The nominations were announced via livestream by former EE Rising Star Award nominees Naomi Ackie and Kingsley Ben-Adir, from the arts charity's HQ at 195 Piccadilly, London, on 18 January 2024; the livestream was also available to watch on BAFTA's Twitter and YouTube pages. The Rising Star nominees, which is the only category voted for by the British public, were unveiled on 10 January 2024. The winners were announced on 18 February 2024.
The epic biographical thriller film Oppenheimer received the most nominations with thirteen and the most wins with seven, including Best Film, Best Director (Christopher Nolan) and Best Actor (Cillian Murphy); British films Poor Things and The Zone of Interest also won multiple awards.


== Winners and nominees ==

The BAFTA longlists were announced on 5 January 2024. The nominees were announced on 18 January 2024. The winners were announced on 18 February 2024.


=== BAFTA Fellowship ===

Samantha Morton


=== Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema ===

June Givanni


=== Awards ===
Winners are listed first and also highlighted in boldface.


== Ceremony information ==

The broadcast was streamed live on BBC One and iPlayer in the United Kingdom, and on BritBox International in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Norway, South Africa, Sweden and the United States; due to the significant time difference, Australia-based BritBox subscribers were able to watch the awards on-demand. The red carpet was hosted by Clara Amfo and Alex Zane, live on BAFTA's social channels Facebook, X and YouTube, while Zainab Jiwa was live from the red carpet exclusively on BAFTA's TikTok channel from 15:00–16:00 GMT.
The trio of Barbie, Killers of the Flower Moon, and Oppenheimer led the longlists, tying with fifteen nods each; this haul of fifteen longlist mentions equalled the record held by the previous year's All Quiet on the Western Front. Poor Things and Maestro followed with fourteen and twelve, respectively. Ultimately, Oppenheimer received the most nominations with thirteen, followed by Poor Things with eleven. The fantasy comedy Barbie underperformed, only receiving five nominations, and without nods for Best Film and Best Director (Greta Gerwig). Another notable omission was Lily Gladstone for Best Actress in a Leading Role for her portrayal of Mollie Burkhart in Killers of the Flower Moon; the "snub" irked many fans, who took to social media to express their confusion and frustration. Additionally, the cultural phenomenon of "Barbenheimer" received a total of eighteen nominations: five for Barbie and thirteen for Oppenheimer; the two films competed against each other in three categories.
English singer and songwriter Sophie Ellis-Bextor performed her 2001 chart-topper "Murder on the Dancefloor", most recently known as the concluding viral song from the five-time BAFTA-nominated film Saltburn. Additionally, British actress and television presenter Hannah Waddingham delivered an exclusive musical performance of the Cyndi Lauper song "Time After Time" during the "In Memoriam" segment.
BAFTA president Prince William attended the ceremony, but, unlike last year, his wife, Catherine, did not, as she was recovering from abdominal surgery; he met the category winners and BAFTA Rising Star Award nominees following the awards ceremony.
Additionally, the BAFTA Awards did not stream the final four categories live this year; they instead were broadcast as-live on the BBC with a two-hour delay along with the rest of the awards. The three-hour ceremony was edited down by an hour to make for a 120-minute runtime. Last year, the show ran with its usual two-hour delay, but the final four categories were broadcast live. BAFTA Awards director Emma Baehr said of the change: "We've tried lots of different things. Last year we went live (...) We're not going to be doing that this year. We tried it. It was good at the time, but it didn't add any more than what we needed."
While producer Emma Thomas was accepting the award for Best Film on behalf of Oppenheimer, social media personality Lizwani gatecrashed her speech. The cast and crew of Oppenheimer were seated on the right-hand side of the venue and after presenter Michael J. Fox announced the winner, Thomas, Christopher Nolan, Charles Roven and Cillian Murphy walked together onto the stage to collect the award. As Thomas was handed the award from Fox, Lizwani nonchalantly entered from the opposite side of the venue and ran onstage. Few audience members and viewers noticed him as he silently stood between Murphy and Roven while Thomas gave her acceptance speech. He was soon apprehended by security officials after he walked offstage with the film's team. A BAFTA spokesperson published a statement following the ceremony: "A social media prankster was removed by security last night after joining the winners of the final award on stage — we are taking this very seriously, and don't wish to grant him any publicity by commenting further."


== In Memoriam ==
The In Memoriam montage was played to the song "Time After Time", performed by Hannah Waddingham.


== Statistics ==


== Notes ==


== See also ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website